I'm here in front of urban light it's a
collection of more than 200 vintage Los
Angeles street lamps in front of LA's
contemporary Museum of Art and if the
mayor's new streetlight initiative is
successful
these could soon be some of the last
remaining traditional street lamps in
the city street lights use a lot of
electricity there's a lot of them and
they cost a lot to light just the
electricity bill to keep the lights on
for the twenty ten thousand street
lights is about seventeen million
dollars per year early this week Mayor
Villaraigosa announced his new
streetlight plan for the next five years
will replace a hundred and forty
thousand of the city's residential
street lights with green
energy-efficient LED lights and ibrahim
ian is the director of La Bureau of
street lighting
he says the energy savings between the
old streetlights and the new ones will
be huge we're looking at 68 million
kilowatt hours of energy every year that
were safe that translates to about I
think 67 hundred cars that you'll be
able to remove from the streets of city
of Los Angeles the new LED streetlights
will be installed over five years the
total cost about 57 million dollars the
city plans to take out loans to pay the
upfront costs and the beauty of this
program is that the energy savings and
the maintenance savings is going to pay
back the loan in seven years
energy policy analyst Mark Bernstein
says even during this economic crisis
energy-efficient LEDs are a great place
to put our money electricity cost money
first of all so the less you have to buy
the less you're gonna spend Bernstein
also says it's good for the environment
to make electricity you need a burning
coal or natural gas for the most part
here in LA and at night when lights are
on it's mostly coal-fired generation
that's producing that power so what will
happen to the old-fashioned street lamps
outside the Art Museum they're not
hours first of all it's private but I
wish in a year or so we'll be able to
work with the museum and convert those
to LED ibrahim Ian says the city plans
to start replacing what he calls the
cobrahead fixtures first that means
urban light and other vintage
streetlights around the city are safe
for now Richard you Sean andin Berg news